So now that you know how to write a script in vim, make it executable with chmod, and run it,
you can practice that whole workflow by making a brand new script.  So I'm just gonna' clear my screen here
and I want you to make a new script called debug.sh. So do 'vim debug.sh', press "i" once for Insert Mode,
Write your shebang,
[Musical singing] She-baaaang!
Add a comment,
'this adds debug output to this script'
and now here's a new command: 'set -x' the 'set' command lets you set all sorts of different--you know-options and things you can do for your terminal
this 'x' basically turns on debug mode so you can see more output from your script when it runs.
Then type 'echo i can debug my script now'
Press escape once, type ":wq", type 'chmod 755 debug.sh',
And then type './debug.sh'
So now when you ran your script with that 'set -x', basically every line that's in your script will
print the line of code that you wrote and then it's output as well.
So this little '+' here, is the line of code that's being run and then this is the actual output from it.
So that's just a nice way to get--to get the debug output onto your script.
So practice this once more.  Just type 'debug2.sh' this time, 'vim debug2.sh', "i" for Insert Mode,
#!/bin/bash, a comment, 'set -x'
'echo debugging some more'
'echo debugging another line'
Escape, ":wq", 'chmod 755 debug2.sh', './debug2.sh'
Mostly that was just so you can get some more practice doing this workflow
The 'vim', the 'chmod', and then the './' to run your script.